We talked about, sorry, Firebase
updating optimistically or the like of.
I'm just kind of curious, is there,
like you mentioned offline,
is the datastore offline that
then syncs whenever possible, or
what happens if you-
>> Yeah.
>> Update and
then the user closes the tab, right, and
they come back to that tab,
is that data still there?
>> Yeah, and when we get to the very next
sections, Firestore, we're gonna get a lot
more into that, but that's a very good
question to be curious about right now.
So yes, and that's a lot of the reason why
those writes can happen without awaiting
them, cuz they are themselves not
dependent on the network state.
When you write that, it will create an
entry, what we call a pending write, and
then there's a whole queue of
writes that gets sent off to
a server behind the scenes.
But all of that gets synchronized
in a cache in IndexedDB.
And so you have to enable offline,
which we'll see, but
if you have offline enabled and then you
run that command, it write a setDoc or
something like that,
it enters that in this background queue.
And if the user just closed the tab
before it happened, that's fine,
it's sitting in IndexedDB for
the next time they open back up again.
It just says, oop, is there any
pending writes left in the queue?
There are,
let me take off from there, yeah.
And there's information that we see as
well within snapshots about the state of
that data, whether it is appending
write or whether it's from the cache or
from the network as well.
So you can build a lot of really
powerful offline UI with the cloud with
a cross through, you can say,
hey, this one hasn't synced yet.
Okay, so now this is a nice method,
because it has everything initialized,
cuz it's everything that we need.
And if we're using more services,
we can just add more and more into it.
And everything kinda comes
back through initialize.
And cool thing about initialize is that
initialize app, as long as you pass
through the same configuration object,
you can call it over and over again.
And it notices that and says, hey,
I'm not gonna reinitialize an app for you,
I'm just gonna give you
the one I know already exist.
So what I want to do at this point
though is I have everything together, so
I want to connect out to emulators.
And each emulator supporting service
has what we call the connect API,
because they all start with connect, so
connect to Firestore emulator,
Connect to Auth emulator.
And what I can do within here is to say,
okay,
let's connect to AuthEmulator,
I'll pass on the auth object.
I need to say this runs on localhost,
what is it, 999.
We're gonna set this up in just a minute,
I'm doing a lot of this from memory.
And then the same thing with Firestore,
they're a little different
in their signature.
So I pass in Firestore,
the host is local host,
the port number usually is 8080,
and I think that's all I need.
So now, what this will do is it'll say,
hey, let me connect out to the emulators.
And I can even say if location.hostname is
equal to localhost, Then do this.
So I'm not accidentally trying to connect
out to emulators while in production.
There are more advanced ways of actually
just removing this with Webpack and
other cool build tools.
But this is sort of a very simple approach
of saying, hey, one of my local hosts, let
me connect out to emulators, otherwise,
let me connect out to production services.
So to get the emulators up and running,
you can know if you have emulators set
up because firebase.json is sort of
a manifest of all these things
that you're running in Firebase.
This is the hosting key
cuz we set up our hosting.
We set our public folder was dist,
we automatically wanna ignore
node modules and stuff like that.
And then this rewrite right
here sets up a rewrite for
a single page app, so they always go
home and do client side routing instead.
So what we also wanna do is we
wanna set up emulators, and
you can see that the emulators would
be configured in here, and we don't.
So what we can say is npx
firebase init emulators.
And when this runs, it says, o,h great,
what emulators would you like to set up?
Well, I want the authentication emulator,
and I want the Firestore emulator.
I hit Enter and it's gonna say,
hey, what ports do you want?
And if you look at that,
auth runs on 999, that's our default one,
I always use that one,
you can use which one you would like.
Firestore runs an 8080.
And in hosting,
I like to never run things on port 5000,
because everything runs on port 5000.
So I don't know, 5032, that sounds good.
And then it says,
would you like to enable the Emulator UI?
Which yes, it's awesome, and we're
gonna leave the Emulator UI port empty,
so it connects to whatever
available port is there.
And if you need to download
the emulators there, it will do it, and
then now I can connect out to emulators.
And so what I can do now is I can actually
take a look and run at the emulators.
So I can say npx firebase, man,
I wish this was a little bigger,
I can say npx firebase emulators start.
And it's gonna run.
And this is why we need Java,
because these emulators,
they expect a Java runtime.
And so it goes, awesome.
Look at that, I am up and running,
I have an authentication emulator and
Firestore and also hosting.
And if we go into local host 4000,
we can see that this
is a local running UI that allows us
to manage all of these things offline.
There's a lot of other emulators as well,
but with auth, we can add users.
With Firestore, we have a very similar
data viewer, we can start adding or
seeding in data, and
we're doing all of this locally.
And so at no point do you
have to worry about, oops,
I'm writing this out to production.
All right, so back to the config.
So now, if I go into my components,
let's go into here,
instead of calling initializeApp,
I can just import
initialize from./firebase
And I don't even need a config anymore cuz
it's doing all that behind the scenes.
And that's gonna import
from this firebaseApp.
Also, firestore and
auth will return from that.
I can delete auth from there, and
I don't even think I need, yes,
I do need auth right here.
And so I can press that in
to sign in anonymously.
And we could have everything
working there, but
this will actually work
from their local emulator.
So I'm running the emulator
in one tab right here,
and so I can go and
run my dev server in another.
So this will be on 3001, it's ../firebase,
I believe, my bad, awesome.
So this right here says
running in emulator mode.
Do not use with production credential.
So we know we're connected
out to the emulator.
And this is kind of an annoying
little banner, and when most people,
you set up the emulator,
they ask how do I get rid of that banner?
And to get rid of that banner, it's pretty
easy, you just come into the connect.
And we have a configuration object as the
last parameter where you can say disable,
I do not need all of that VS Code,
disableWarnings is true.
And then now, if I refresh, look at that,
it's gone, but
we are connected out to the emulator.
If I click sign in, we got signed in.
And if I come out to authentication,
look at that,
this is right in my local emulator.
So the same thing can
happen with Firestore,
if I start writing data in Firestore,
we'll see everything happen there.
For the sake of time,
I wanna get to the other stuff, so
I'm gonna move forward without connecting
out to, actually, yeah, to Firestore.
But one of the things I'm going to show
now is you can also, where we talked about
deploying, every time I deployed,
it went to markdown-me.web.app.
So let's say someone was like, hey, let's
add a new feature, and I deployed it,
well, if I deploy it to production and
it breaks, that's not great.
I want some sort of collaborative
environment for doing deployments.
So I can use a feature of Firebase
hosting called preview channels.
And so I could say npx firebase
hosting:channel:deploy,
and I can give it any name I want,
staging.
And so what this will need to do is
it'll need to be the built version,
which I may have needed to run build,
but that's fine.
So then it's gonna go out,
it's gonna do a deployment.
But instead of going
out to a specific URL,
I'm using a different
project at this point.
But as you can see,
it goes out to this URL,
which sort of gives me some generated URL.
And what's great about this
is that I have a new change,
I wanna send it to a coworker, to a
friend, or whoever to test it out for me,
I just send out this preview channel,
I give it to someone and they can use it.
And the default setting for
preview channels is in seven days,
they just disappear.
So you can configure that to be shorter or
longer.
And also with Firebase CLI, you can set
this to work up with GitHub actions.
So out of the box,
every time someone sends a pull request,
it will create a preview channel.
And every time a commit
happens to that pull request,
it will rerun and
deploy the latest changes.
So it's a really nice way of doing PRs and
doing collaborative like,
hey, I changed background to blue.
Wait, no, change it to cyan or whatever,
just really nice way of
seeing different changes.
So yeah, so that right there allows
me to have local environments and
staged environments.
And so this keeps us from just pushing
all changes to one project with all these
cloud connected environments.
So that is a bit of a best practice.
But also a great part about having
the local emulators is that what
we saw here in the console is
that our security rules say, hey,
anyone can read and write data at
this location before this date.
That's not great,
I don't like that, I don't want
people to be able to read and write.
So what I actually can do for now since
I'm in development mode, I can say,
hey, allowed read and write is false.
And so now, no one is going to
be able to read and write, so
this database will fail for everyone.
And what I can do is locally,
I can create a local set of rules.
I'll go back to the console just for
you, Mark.
And I can say npx firebase init firestore,
and
then now it's going to set
up local Firestore rules for
me, indexes which we'll get into.
And then now, I have this new
firestore.rules file, and I can develop
all of my security rules locally, and
they work against the emulator as well.
So any changes I make, which we'll get
all into security rules here in a minute,
to these security rules,
I can make sure, if there's a bug,
I will find it locally before
I find it in production.
And if my production data is not ready to
be read yet, I can lock it all down and
then just keep running off
this local environment.
So, yes.
>> Can I populate users and
data in my development environment, so
I don't have to recreate them?
>> Absolutely, so one of the things
that we'll be using a lot
throughout this whole section is,
so Firebase has a server SDK,
we call the Admin SDK that is
very similar to the client SDKs.
But it has a lot more powerful actions,
because it's some server, it can do a lot.
You can use that to write data if
you wanna do your own scripting.
And with the emulators,
you can write a command
where you say firebase emulators:start,
and
you can say import=./seed or local.
And then also one of my favorite
bits is you can say export-on-exit,
and when you turn off the terminal,
whatever existed gets spit
out into that .local file.
So you can seed it all up one
time with some commands or
you can manually enter it.
And when it cuts out, it will export
it all out and you won't have to do
a receipt every time, it just reads
off of that file or set of files.
And it does the same for the Auth as well,
you'll see it'll spit out
all of your user records.
So I use that totally.
And actually as we get into some of
the more exercises, I'll point out to you
where they are, so you see, yeah,
I'm reading in from that section.
So a great question.
Awesome, so this is a bit of a better
practice than what we were doing before.
We're connecting out to emulators,
we're deploying to different environments,
we are not talking to production.
And so we don't have to worry
about security from the get go,
is someone gonna be talking
to my database and all that?
Nope, we can work all locally until
we're ready to get to production.